---
sidebar_position: 4
--- 

# Post-Install Steps

All of the steps in this section are technically optional, but it's highly recommended to follow these steps to make your virtual machine run better. By default, the virtual machine will work fine, but it will be quite slow and not as good as it could be. These steps will make your virtual machine run faster and more smoothly.

## 1. Installing UTM Tools

UTM Tools are a set of drivers and tools that make the virtual machine run better. They are not required, but they are recommended. They allow us to resize the window freely, share files between macOS and Windows, and more.

A window should have popped up the fist time you logged into Windows, asking you to install UTM Guest Tools. If you closed that window, follow these steps to install UTM Guest Tools:

1. Open the Start menu and search for `File Explorer`.
2. Go to `This PC` and open the `CD Drive` titled `UTM Guest Tools` by double-clicking on it.
3. Run the `utm-guest-tools-0.299.exe` file by double-clicking it. The number may be different depending on the version of UTM you are using, but it should be named similarly.
4. Click `Next`, `I Agree`, and wait for UTM Guest Tools to be installed.
5. Click `Finish`.

## 2. Activating Windows

Windows will work fine without activation, but it's best to activate it to remove the watermark and unlock all features. If you have a product key, you can use it to activate Windows. However, we'll assume you don't have a product key and will use a free method to activate Windows.

1. Open the Start menu and search for `Powershell`.
2. Run the following command in Powershell:

    ```powershell
    irm https://get.activated.win | iex
    ```

    If that command doesn't work, use the following command:

    ```powershell
    irm https://massgrave.dev/get | iex
    ```

3. Once the new window pops up, press `1` and wait for the activation to complete. You will know when it's done because the window will tell you.
4. Close the window and close Powershell.

## 3. Cleaning Up Leftovers

1. Open the Start menu and click on the power button.
2. Click on `Shut down`.
3. Wait for the virtual machine to shut down.
4. Close the UTM window.
5. Open UTM again and click on the virtual machine you created.
6. Click on the settings button in the upper right corner, next to the play button.
7. Scroll down in the left sidebar and delete the two USB drives by clicking on them and selecting `Delete`.
